---
title: "YOLO-TMHC: An Optimized Model Balancing Precision and Efficiency for Tibetan Medicinal Herb Recognition"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/2025-11-12-talk-1
venue: "Lingshui,Hainan,China"
date: 2025-11-12
location: "Lingshui,Hainan,China"
---

This is a description of your talk, which is a markdown file that can be all markdown-ified like any other post. Yay markdown!

#YOLO-TMHC: An Optimized Model Balancing Precision and Efficiency for Tibetan Medicinal Herb Recognition

The paper proposes YOLO-TMHC, an optimized deep learning model based on YOLOv11n for Tibetan medicinal herb recognition, aiming to address the challenges of high labor intensity and high misidentification rates in traditional manual recognition. The model enhances the C3k2 module of the backbone network by adding a concatenated diverse branch block (DBB) module (integrating multi-scale convolution, sequential convolution, and average pooling to learn more comprehensive features), introduces an efficient bidirectional feature pyramid network (BiFPN) after the connection operation in the neck structure for bidirectional fusion and weighted optimization of multi-scale features, and adds a CAFM attention mechanism after each C3k2 module in the neck to improve the learning of key features. The study uses a dataset of 29,384 images covering 12 categories of Tibetan medicinal herbs as input, and this input dataset, with its large sample size and coverage of 12 key categories of Tibetan medicinal herbs, meets the data demand for high-precision model training and has already reached the state-of-the-art (SOTA) level in terms of Tibetan medicinal herb recognition dataset scale and category representativeness. Experimental results show that YOLO-TMHC, as the output model, achieves an mAP@0.5 of 98.14% (1.32% higher than the baseline YOLOv11n), recognizes a single image in 28.6 ms (corresponding to 35 FPS), has 3.5×10⁶ parameters and 8.6 GFLOPs. Compared with mainstream models such as YOLOv4-tiny, YOLOv5s, YOLOv7-tiny, YOLOv8n, and YOLOv10n, it outperforms them in precision, recall, mAP@0.5, and maintains excellent real-time performance and lightweight characteristics, thus the output performance of YOLO-TMHC has already reached the state-of-the-art (SOTA) level in the field of Tibetan medicinal herb recognition. This model provides technical support for the development of modern herbal recognition and edge recognition devices, and contributes to the modernization and digitization of Tibetan medicine practices.


